S Arya, Arya: Page Number Eighty.
S Arya, Arya: At last, within a few days march of Moscow, Kudosov made a stand. At last the great battle was imminent. After a hundred false alarms. After many disappointed hoops. The country had been flat hitherto.
S Arya, Arya: At last road Charles, to decade on September six we are to have a great battle. There has been much fighting the last few days, but I have seen none of it. We are only eight miles from Moscow.
S Arya, Arya: If there is a great battle. Tomorrow we shall see Moscow in less than a week,
S Arya, Arya: for we shall win. I have now found out from one who is near him that the Emperor saw and remembered me the day he passed us in the frog.
S Arya, Arya: Our wedding day, dearest,
S Arya, Arya: he thought, that my marriage to you, for he knows that you are French, would militate against the work I had been given to do in Danzig,
S Arya, Arya: so he gave orders for me to be sent at once to
S Arya, Arya: colleagues and to continue the work there.
S Arya, Arya: The customer tells me that the Emperor is pleased with me. The customer is the best friend I have. I am sure of that. It is said that under the walls of Moscow the Emperor will dictate this terms to Alexander.
S Arya, Arya: Everyone wonders that Alexander of Russia did not make proposals of peace when Vilna and
S Arya, Arya: small ink spell.
S Arya, Arya: In a week we may be at Moscow in a month I may be back at dancing desert,
S Arya, Arya: and the rest would have been for Dassie's eyes alone had it ever been penned. For next is sacredness to heaven. Inspired words are made human love letters, and those who read the love letters of another commit A.
S Arya, Arya: But Charles never finished The letter, for the dawn surprised him where he wrote in a shed by the miserable Caluga,
S Arya, Arya: a streamlet running to the Moscow,
S Arya, Arya: and it was the dawn of September seventh, one thousand eight hundred and twelve.
S Arya, Arya: There is the son of Austilitz, said Napoleon to those who were near him when it arose. But it was not. It was the son of Borodino, and before it set. The great battle desired by the French had been fought, and eight French generals lay dead,
S Arya, Arya: and all fought to finish a war which from the first had been disliked.
S Arya, Arya: The French claimed it as a victory, but they gained nothing from it, and they lost forty thousand killed and wounded.
S Arya, Arya: During the night the Russians evacuated the position which they had held and lost and retaken,
S Arya, Arya: while to the many orderly persons would
S Arya, Arya: page number eighty. One wish to see everything in its place, and the history books on the top shelf to be taken down and read on a future day which will never come
S Arya, Arya: to such. The explanation is due that this battle of Borodino is here touched upon, because it changed the current of some lives with which we had to deal,
S Arya, Arya: or battles and revolutions and historical events of any sort are the jad instruments with which fate, rough, use our lives, leaving us to shape them as we will in other days. No doubt men are rough, hued while fate shape.
S Arya, Arya: But as civilization advances, men will wax so tender, so careful of the individual that they will never cut and slash, but move softly, very tolerant, very easy going, seeking the compromise that brings peace, and breeds a small and timid race of men.
S Arya, Arya: Into such lives. Fate comes crashing like a wooden with his axe, leaving us to smooth the edges of the gapping wound, and smile and say that we are not good
S Arya, Arya: to pair away the knots and broken stumps, and hope that our neighbor, concealing such himself, will have the decency to pretend not to see.
S Arya, Arya: Thus the battle of Borodino crashed into the lives of Dassini and Matilda and their father,
S Arya, Arya: living quietly on the sunny side of
S Arya, Arya: for one guess in Danzig,
S Arya, Arya: Antony Sebastian was the first to hear the news.
S Arya, Arya: He had, it seemed, special facilities for learning news at the Vicin for Russell.
S Arya, Arya: With the he went again. Now in the evening.
S Arya, Arya: There has been a great battle, he said, with so much more than his usual self restraint that Dasser and Matilda exchanged a glance of anxiety.
S Arya, Arya: A man coming this evening from
S Arya, Arya: it was a great victory quite near to Moscow, but the loss on both sides has been terrible.
S Arya, Arya: He paused and glanced at dashing. It was his breed that good blood should show an example of self restraint, and certain steadfast in different courage.
S Arya, Arya: Not so much among the French, he said, as among the Bavarians and Italians,
S Arya, Arya: it is an odd way of showing patriotism
S Arya, Arya: to gain victories for the conqueror. One hooked. He paused and made a gesture with his right hand, scarcely
S Arya, Arya: indicative of a staunch
S Arya, Arya: that the man's star might be setting. But it would appear to be still in the ascendant, he added, as an afterthought
S Arya, Arya: would be on the staff. No doubt he only saw the fighting from a distance.
S Arya, Arya: Oh, yes, she answered, I have no doubt he is safe. He has good fortune, for she was an apt pupil, and
S Arya, Arya: had already learned that the world only wishes to live us in undisputed possession of our anxieties or sorrows. However, radiate
S Arya, Arya: Page Number eighty, two,
S Arya, Arya: maybe to come forward and take a hand in good fortune.
S Arya, Arya: Age number eighty, two,
S Arya, Arya: maybe to come forward and take a hand in good fortune. But there is no definite news, said Matilda, hardly looking up from the needlework at which her fingers were so deaf and industrious.
S Arya, Arya: No,
S Arya, Arya: no news of Charles I mean, she continued, or of any of our friends of
S Arya, Arya: once you're the Casimir, for instance.
S Arya, Arya: No; As for the kernel. D. Cass, they returned Sebastian thoughtfully.
S Arya, Arya: He, like Charles, holds some staff appointment of which one does not understand the scope. He is without doubt
S Arya, Arya: and enjoyed.
S Arya, Arya: Matilda glanced at her father, not with suspicion. This grand manner might easily be at times a screen. One never knows how much is perceived by those who look down from
S Arya, Arya: a hi, please.
S Arya, Arya: The town was quite enough. All that night Sebastian must have learned the news from some an official source, for none other seemed to know.
S Arya, Arya: But at daybreak the church was
S Arya, Arya: so rarely used in dancing for rejoicing.
S Arya, Arya: When this daisy came downstairs she found a packet awaiting her. The career had come in during the night. This was more than a letter. A number of papers had been folded in a handkerchief and bound with string.
S Arya, Arya: The address was written on a piece of white leather that from the uniform of one who had fallen at Borodino, and had no more need of
S Arya, Arya: that being
S Arya, Arya: Madame de city, that again may Sebastian
S Arya, Arya: for these thirty-six dancing.
S Arya, Arya: That's really hard stood still for the writing was unknown to her as she cut the network of strength. She thought that Charles was that when the enclosed paper fell upon the table she was sure of it,
S Arya, Arya: for they were all in his writing. She did not,
S Arya, Arya: and choose as one would have leisure and no very strong excitement, but
S Arya, Arya: took up the first paper and read:
S Arya, Arya: You'll see. I have been fortunate, as you will see, from the unclosed report. This Majesty cannot again say that I have been neglectful. I was quite right. It is Sebastian, and only Sebastian that we need fear. Here they are from sea conspirators compared to him.
S Arya, Arya: I have been in the river of the night, listening at the open stern window offers, we will think, to every word they said. This majesty can safely come to Collingsburg.
S Arya, Arya: Indeed, he is better out of dancing,
S Arya, Arya: for the whole country is riddle with that which they call patriotism, and we
S Arya, Arya: but I can
S Arya, Arya: page number eighty-three only repeat what his Majesty just believed the day before yesterday
S Arya, Arya: that the heart of the ill is dancing and the venom of it. Sebastian,
S Arya, Arya: I go forward today to
S Arya, Arya: the letter was unsigned, but the writing was the writing of Charles Darrin and Dassari knew what he had sacrificed, what he could never recover.
S Arya, Arya: They ring no signature, and yet written by chance that we read them carefully with the sort of number attention which photograph them permanently on her memory, like writing that is carved in stone upon a wall.
S Arya, Arya: There must be some explanation in one of them who had sent them to her was Charles dead?
S Arya, Arya: At last she came to a sealed envelope addressed to herself by Charles, some other hand, had copied the address from it in identical terms on the piece of white leather
S Arya, Arya: She opened and read it. It was the letter returned to her by Charles on the bank of the Caluga River, on the eve of Borodino,
S Arya, Arya: and left unfinished by him.
S Arya, Arya: He must be dead.
S Arya, Arya: She prayed that he might
S Arya, Arya: to prepare breakfast. She heard Lisa talking with someone at the door. The messenger, no doubt, to say that chance was there
S Arya, Arya: one later still remade under it. It was in a different writing, the writing on the White Leg,
S Arya, Arya: Madame, it read: The enclosed papers were found on the field by one of my orderlies, one of them, being addressed to you, furnishes a clue to their
S Arya, Arya: owner, who must have dropped them in the hurry of the advance. Should Captain Charles Darrigan, be your husband. I have the pleasure to inform you that he was seen alive and well. At the end of the day
S Arya, Arya: the writer assured the dazzling of his respectful considerations, and wrote surgeon after his thing.
S Arya, Arya: That's really. I read the explanation too late,